[Improvement][WIP] Add subworkflow documentation (#55)
scilus/nf-scil: docs/SUBWORKFLOWS.md

take:
    channel_data1  // channel: [ val(meta), [ data1 ] ]
    channel_data2  // channel: [ val(meta), [ data2 ] ]
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `take` keyword is used, the beginning of the workflow body must be defined with the `main` keyword !

#### Fill the `main:` section.

Compose your workflow using the different modules and workflows you've included above.
Modules using input channels just need to specify the appropriate channel :

```
<MODULE1> (channel_data1)
```

To connect two modules together you need to create a channel which takes one of the outputs of the first module. To do this, use the `.out` which allows you to select the outputs of the first module. Finally, specify which of the module's outputs you want :

```
channel_module2 = <MODULE1>.out.<output>
<MODULE2> (channel_module2)
```

When a module requires multiple inputs, don't create several channels. Create one that contains the different inputs required by the modules. For this, you need an operator. One of the most useful is `.join`. Attention the order is important and must correspond to the desired order in the module :

```
channel_module3 = <MODULE2>.out.<output>.join(channel_data1).join(channel_data2)

> <MODULE3> (channel_module3)

Reviewer: It's a weird one, I agree. I'll do some look around in the Nextflow/nf-core documentation to see how they tackle that part and do suggestions in the next review

```
ch_versions = Channel.empty()
```

Then, at the end of each module, incorporate the module version into the channel version.

```
channel_module2 = <MODULE1>.out.<output>
<MODULE2> (channel_module2)
ch_versions = ch_versions.mix(<MODULE2>.out.versions.first())
```

#### define your Workflow outputs.

Once the `main` finish you can define the output that you want from the different modules or workflows.
A workflow can declare one or more output channels using the `emit` keyword.

```
emit:
    output1 = <MODULE1>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
    output2 = <MODULE2>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
```

> [!NOTE]
> As with `main`, you can create outputs containing several files using operators.

Don't forget to also define the output for the version file :

```
    versions = ch_versions // channel: [ versions.yml ]
```

### Editing `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/meta.yml` :

Fill the sections you find relevant. There is a lot of metadata in this file, but you
don't need to specify them all. At least define 3 `keywords`, describe the workflow'

> `inputs` and `outputs` in the order in which they appear, and add a `complete description` for the use of the subworkflow.

Reviewer: Here, can you further expand on what is a `complete description` ? Use-cases, behaviors that changes with inputs, etc ...

Author: Please tell me what you want in total because I'm not sure I know exactly what you want for the description.

Reviewer: For sure ! I'll add some suggestions in the next review.

> ### Editing `./test/subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/main.nf` :
> 
> ### Editing `./test/subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/nextflow.config` :
> 
> ## Run the tests to generate the test metadata file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generate the tests

In construction
```

We'll fill the section with @gagnonanthony and the new `nf-test` documentation

> ## Submit your PR

Reviewer: I cannot suggest the change, since there is code snippet in it, but you can put this block at the end. I adapted from what I'm modifying in the MODULE.md file right now. Feel free to change to your liking !

## Lint your code

Run `prettier` on your new module, through the _nf-core_ command line :

```bash
nf-core subworkflows \
  --git-remote <your repository> \
  --branch <your branch unless main branch> \
  lint <subworkflow>
```

and fix all `errors` and as much as the `warnings`as possible. Refer to
[this section](./VALIDATION.md#code-standards-and-formatting) for further information.

## Submit your PR

Open a PR to the `nf-scil` repository master. We'll test everything, make sure it's
working and that code follows standards.

Once LGTM has been declared, wave to the maintainers and look at your hard work paying off.

PR merged !

Author: Can you send me the address to which the link in "this section" leads as I'm not sure of the direction.

Reviewer: Oh my bad, It links to a new documentation section I'm working on, didn't thought about that. I'll get back to you in the day on that.

# Adding a new subworkflow to nf-scil

## Generate the template

First verify you are located at the root of this repository (not in `subworkflows`), then run the following interactive command :

```
nf-core subwworkflows create
```

That will ask you to give a name of your subworflow then the author name (github username).
Alternatively, you can use the following command to supply directly those informations :

```
nf-core subworkflows create name --author
```

## Generate the template

### Editing `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/main.nf` :

We don’t have the choice to generate an empty template when we generate a subworflow, so the template is based on nf-core.

- remove the different comment lines.
- include your modules into your subworkflows.

>   - remove the modules `{ SAMTOOLS_SORT}` and `{ SAMTOOLS_INDEX }` then includes yours with the good pathway:

Reviewer: You can remove the first bullet and dedent the second. The second is a good enough description

```

> include { <MODULES>	} from '../../../modules/nf-scil/<category/tool>/main'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include { <MODULES>	} from '../../../modules/nf-scil/<category>/<tool>/main'
```

```

> [!NOTE]
> You can also include workflows into your subworkflow :

```

> include { <SUBWORKFLOWS> } from '../<subworkflows>/main'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include { <SUBWORKFLOW> } from '../<subworkflow>/main'
```

```
emit:
    output1 = <MODULE1>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
    output2 = <MODULE2>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
```

> [!NOTE]
> As with `main`, you can create outputs containing several files using operators.

Don't forget to also define the output for the version file :

```
    versions = ch_versions // channel: [ versions.yml ]
```

### Editing `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/meta.yml` :

Fill the sections you find relevant. There is a lot of metadata in this file, but we
don't need to specify them all. At least define 3 `keywords`, describe the workflow'
`inputs` and `outputs` in the order in which they appear, and add a `short description` for the use of the subworkflow.

### Editing `./test/subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/main.nf` :

- define the channels of your different inputs.
  > You can check the possibilities given by nf-core to include your dataset in the nextflow documentation : https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/channel.html .

### Editing `./test/subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/nextflow.config` :

## Run the tests to generate the test metadata file

> ## Last safety test

Reviewer: You can remove this part, we decided not to press on this, we'll have to remove it from the module's doc as well.

# Adding a new subworkflow to nf-scil

## Generate the template

First verify you are located at the root of this repository (not in `subworkflows`), then run the following interactive command :

```
nf-core subworkflows create
```

It will ask you to give a name for your subworkflow and an author name (use your github username).
Alternatively, you can use the following command to supply directly those informations :

```
nf-core subworkflows create <name> --author <author>
```

## Generate the template

### Edit `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/main.nf`

You don’t have the choice to generate an empty template when you generate a subworflow, so the template is based on nf-core.

> - remove the different comment lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the different comment lines.
```

```
channel_module2 = <MODULE1>.out.<output>
<MODULE2> (channel_module2)
```

When a module requires multiple inputs, don't create several channels. Create one that contains the different inputs required by the modules. For this, you need an operator, one of the most useful is `.join`. Attention, here we're talking about inputs and not channels, if one of the elements is part of a channel made up of several elements, you'll need to specify the chosen element. Plus, the order is important and must correspond to the desired order in the module :

```
channel_module3 = <MODULE2>.out.<output>.join(channel_data1).join(channel_data2.data3)
<MODULE3> (channel_module3)
```

> [!NOTE]
> There are different types of operator depending on your needs. For a complete list, please refer to the nextflow documentation: : https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#

> [!WARNING]
> The same applies to workflows, you can link modules to workflows and vice versa.

> At the same time, you need to edit the version files of our various modules. The first thing to do in the main is to create an empty channel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For validation, you need to collect the version files of the modules and subworkflows included in yours. The first thing to do in the main is to create an empty channel:
```

```
ch_versions = Channel.empty()
```

> Then, at the end of each module, incorporate the module version into the channel version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, after each module call, add its version file into the channel:
```

```
channel_module2 = <MODULE1>.out.<output>
<MODULE2> (channel_module2)
ch_versions = ch_versions.mix(<MODULE2>.out.versions.first())
```

#### define your Workflow outputs.

Once the `main` finished you can define the output that you want from the different modules or workflows, be sure to assign just one output per channel. Please list as many outputs as possible for your workflow, so that it can be better reused and adapted.

A workflow can declare one or more output channels using the `emit` keyword.

```
emit:
    output1 = <MODULE1>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
    output2 = <MODULE2>.out.<output> // channel: [ val(meta), [ output ] ]
```

> [!NOTE]
> As with `main`, you can create outputs containing several files using operators.

Don't forget to also define the output for the version file :

```
    versions = ch_versions // channel: [ versions.yml ]
```

### Edit `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/meta.yml`

> Fill the sections you find relevant. There is a lot of metadata in this file, but you
> don't need to specify them all. At least define 3 `keywords`, describe the workflow'
> `inputs` and `outputs` in the order in which they appear, and add a `complete description` for the use of the subworkflow (Use-cases, expected output file, workflow variation based on optional inputs, workflow positioning in relation to other).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide at least 3 relevant `keywords` and list all modules and subworkflows used in the `components` section. List all `inputs` and `outputs` in the order in which you defined them. Give a complete `description` of the subworkflow, describing all potential uses and variations of inputs and their effects on expected outputs.
```

## Lint your code

> Run prettier on your new module, through the nf-core command line :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `prettier` on your new module, through the `nf-core` command line :
```

```
  nf-core subworkflows \
    --git-remote <your repository> \
    --branch <your branch unless main branch> \
    lint <subworkflow>
```

> and fix all errors and as much as the warnings as possible. Refer to this section for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and fix all `errors` and as many `warnings` as possible.
```

We'll go with that for now.

## Submit your PR

> Open a PR to the nf-scil repository master. We'll test everything, make sure it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a PR to the nf-scil repository `main` branch. We'll test everything, make sure it's
```

# Adding a new subworkflow to nf-scil

## Generate the template

First verify you are located at the root of this repository (not in `subworkflows`), then run the following interactive command :

```
nf-core subworkflows create
```

It will ask you to give a name for your subworkflow and an author name (use your github username).
Alternatively, you can use the following command to supply directly those informations :

```
nf-core subworkflows create <name> --author <author>
```

## Generate the template

### Edit `./subworkflows/nf-scil/<name_of_your_workflow>/main.nf`

> You don’t have the choice to generate an empty template when you generate a subworflow, so the template is based on nf-core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can't select an empty template when you generate a new subworkflow, so the template is based on nf-core. You will need to replace some of their sections for your use case:
```

- Remove the different comment lines.

> - Include your modules into your subworkflows. Remove the modules `{ SAMTOOLS_SORT}` and `{ SAMTOOLS_INDEX }` then includes yours with the good pathway:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Include your modules into your subworkflows (a subworkflow should include at least **two** modules). Remove the modules `{ SAMTOOLS_SORT}` and `{ SAMTOOLS_INDEX }` then includes yours with the good pathway:
```

```
include { <MODULES>	} from '../../../modules/nf-scil/<category>/<tool>/main'
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can also include other subworkflows :
>
> ```
> include { <SUBWORKFLOW> } from '../<subworkflow>/main'
> ```

> #### Define your Workflow inputs.

Reviewer 2: I feel using subworkflow would be more consistent with the rest of the doc, but I don't mind workflow either. I'll let you choose!
```suggestion
#### Define your Subworkflow inputs.
```

> A workflow can declare one or more input channels using the `take` keyword.
> Multiple inputs must be specified on separate lines:

Reviewer 2: I would add some details for optional input channels. I made some suggestions but feel free to modify them. Also, I can't suggest modifications in the code snippet, but I would add the `, optional` to the `channel_data2` or add a third channel. 
```suggestion
A workflow can declare one or more input channels using the `take` keyword. If some of your input channels are optional, add an optional tag after the channel specification.
Multiple inputs must be specified on separate lines:
```

```
take:
    channel_data1  // channel: [ val(meta), [ data1 ] ]
    channel_data2  // channel: [ val(meta), [ data2 ], [ data3 ] ]
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `take` keyword is used, the beginning of the workflow body must be defined with the `main` keyword !

#### Fill the `main:` section.

Compose your workflow using the different modules and workflows you've included above.
For inputs channels, use it as follows:

```
<MODULE1> (channel_data1)
```

To connect two modules together, you need to create a channel which takes one of the outputs of the first module and feeds it to the other. To do this, use the `.out` attribute and select the desired output by name :

```
channel_module2 = <MODULE1>.out.<output>
<MODULE2> (channel_module2)
```

To assemble the outputs of one or multiple modules together in a new channel, use the [join](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#join), [combine](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#combine) and [groupTuple](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#grouptuple) operators. For example :

```

> channel_module3 = <MODULE2>.out.<output>.join(channel_data1).join(channel_data2.data3)

Reviewer 2: Remove the `.data3` from the second `.join`.
